Class 1 notes

So, Python uses English-like syntax, and it doesn't use curly braces { } to block out its code. Instead it favors simple white space indenting.

translates the high-level code, one line at a time, as the program is running
interpreters

go through the entire program and translate everything at once
compiler

two types of programs that do this translation. One type, called interpreters, translates the high-level code, one line at a time, as the program is running. This is different from a compiler, which will go through the entire program and translate everything at once. 


Many common programming languages today use a compiler such as Java, C++, C#, and Visual Basic. Others use an interpreter. Python is an interpreted language

 So, Python uses English-like syntax, and it doesn't use curly braces { } to block out its code. Instead it favors simple white space indenting.

    print "Hello world!"

Please note, Python is a case-sensitive language. Therefore, typing print is different from typing Print. Only the all lowercase print will work here.

phrase = "Hello world!"
print phrase

print phrase
Hello world!

 literal string. 
In general, a string is just a collection of letters. The reason we're calling
 this a literal string is because we want to literally see the phrase Hello World! 
 on the screen. 

In Python, a set of characters that are enclosed in double quotes (" ") are known as what?
A literal string

What would happen if you typed the following Python statement at the Python command prompt:
print "hello"
You would see the work hello on screen

in python 3 you need to use ()

QUIZ 1

translates high-level instructions all at once, before any code is run?
compailer

Which of the following is the Python command prompt?
>>>

a set of characters that are enclosed in double quotes (" ") are known as what?
a literal string

if you typed the following Python statement at the Python command prompt:
print "hello"

you would see
 hello world
 print(f'hello')


Which of the following statements regarding IDLE is correct?
free development environment for python







